Version: 0.87, wais-8-b5.1
Date: Thu Aug 27 1992
Author: Jonny Goldman <jonathan@Think.COM>

Use this window to obtain information from one or more sources available in
your WAIS system.

If you have opened a questions that already exists, it appears in the "Tell
me about:" box.

To ask a new question, type search words in the "Tell me about:" box. 

Full Text Search:
-----------------
These should be words that relate as closely as possible to the topic you are
interested in.  They don't have to form a grammatical sentence, and they
don't have to be in any particular order.

Partial/Literal Search:
-----------------------
        EXAMPLE:
                system*                 # match system or systems

               'information retrieval'  # match exactly 'information retrieval'


Field Search:
-------------
 1. type a field from the list of fields (e.g. au, ti, py) 
    containing in <database>.src

 2. type an operator. This will usually be an equals "=" sign. 
    (Also >, <, ==)

 3. type the term you wish to search on.

    EXAMPLE:  ti = (information retrieval)
              ti = information network 
           or ti = (information) network
              would mean the term 'information' is in field "ti".
              The term 'network' is in global database.

Boolean Search:
---------------
You can use the following "connectors" to perform logical operations 
on search statements: 
                     and, or, not (means and-not).

    EXAMPLE: au = salton and au = buckley
             This would give you listings for either salton or buckley

             au = salton and pu = 'new york'
             This would give you listings for all documents by author salton
             that are published be new york

             au = salton not pu = 'new york'
             This would give you a listing for all documents by author salton
             that were not published by new york.

You can also use parenthesis to determine precedence:

     EXAMPLE: au = salton and (pu = 'new york' or springer)
              would give listing of all documents by author salton published
              by either new york or springer.
             
              (information and retrieval) or (information and systems)
              This would give you a listing for all documents containing
              either both words information, retrieval 
              or both words information, systems

Statements inside parenthesis will be searched first.    


Numeric Search:
---------------
 py == 1994                       # publication year 1990
 py > 1994                        # publication year greater than 1994
 py < 1994                        # publication year less than 1994

Soundex/Phonix Searches:
----------------------
soundex salatan                   # matches eg. 'Salton'
phonix salatan

Combined Searches
-----------------
au = salton not py < 1990
(au = salton) information retrieval
(au = salton) or ti = 'information retrieval'
(ti = information and ti= retrieval) and py == 1994
(au = soundex salatan or salton) and ti = (information and system*) and py > 1990

Query Syntax Error:
-------------------
Query Syntax Error is recognized.

Example:
--------
  (information retrieval               # parentheses missing
  ti = (information and (au = salton)) # syntax error but
  ti = (information) and (au = salton) # ok


To choose the source or sources to be searched for the information, click
on Add Source.  A popup menu displays the list of available sources. Click
on the source you want to highlight it, then click on the "Ok" button; this
adds it to the "In Sources:" list.  To delete a source, click on it in the
"In Sources:" list so that it is highlighted, then click on the Delete
Source button.

When you have chosen the sources you want, click on the Search button to
start the search.  The documents that WAIS finds are listed in the
"Resulting documents:" list. The number to the left of each document is its
"score"; the higher the score, the closer the document matched your
question.

To view a document, click on its name in the list so that it is
highlighted, and then click on the View button.  The document appears in a
window.  Click on the Add Section button to add this file to the "Similar
to:" list, which is described below.  Click on Find Key to highlight the
search words that this document matches.  Click on Save to File to save the
document to a file; a dialog box appears that prompts for a filename.
Click on Done to delete the window.

To save a result to a file, click on its name in the list so that it is
highlghted, and then click on the Save... button.  A file requester will
appear.  Simply fill it in and press "OK".

To view one of the sources in the "In Sources:" list, double click on its
name in the list.  A Source View window will appear.  To remove this
window, press "Cancel".  If you wish to change this source, edit its data
and press "Save".

To view one of the documents in the "Similar To:" list, double click on its
name in the list.  The document will appear in a window.  All the actions
associated with document windows apply.

Normally the Abort button is "fuzzed", but during Search or Retrieval you
may click on this button to abort the Search or Retrieval operation.

If you want to fine-tune your search, add documents to the "Similar to:"
list.  Adding a document to this list essentially tells WAIS to "get me
more documents like this one."  To add a document, click on it in the
"Resulting documents:" list, then click on Add Document.  To remove a
document, click on it in the "Similar to:" list, then click on Delete
Document.  When you have the documents you want in the "Similar to:" list,
click on Search to rerun the search.

You can also modify some of the settings in the application using the
"Prefs" button.  Of particular note is the "Maximum Results" which controls
the maximum number of results a Question will return.

Click on the Done button when you are finished with your search. If this is
a new question, a file requester will appear, asking if you want to save
the question to a file.  If you do, it will subsequently appear in your
Questions list in the main X WAIS window.
