Version: 0.87, wais-8-b5.1
Date: Thu Aug 27 1992
Author: Jonny Goldman <jonathan@Think.COM>

This is the main window for xwais, the X interface to a Wide Area
Information Server.  Using xwais, you can quickly obtain information from
the sources provided by your server.

There are three parts to this X WAIStation window: Questions, Sources, and
Status.

"Questions" lists the files in which you have saved questions from previous
sessions.  If this is the first time you are using xwais, the Questions
list is empty.

"Sources" lists the sources available to you.

"Status" displays messages from xwais.

Asking a Question

To ask a new question, click on the New button beneath the Questions
list.  A Question window appears; click on the Help button in this window
to find out how to ask the question.

To ask a question from your Questions list, click on its name to highlight
it, then click on the Open button.  A window appears showing the question.
You might want to save a question and re-ask it if your sources are
periodically updated, and you want to see if there is new information
available.


Editing and Adding Sources

In general, you will not need to do much with sources.  If you do wish to
edit or create new sources, see the WAIStation Users's Guide to learn the
meaning of the slots in the Source Edit window.

To add a new source, click on the New button beneath the Sources list.  A
Source window appears.  Fill in the Name field with the name of the source
(ending in .src) that will become the name of the source for further
questions.  Fill in the rest of the information according to the
description in the WAIStation User's Guide.

To modify a source from your Source list, click on its name to highlight
it, then click on the Open button.  A window appears showing the source.
Change the apropriate information according to the description in the
WAIStation User's Guide.  


Leaving xwais

To leave xwais, click twice on the Quit button beneath the Questions list.
(This only closes the XWAIStation window.  If you have question windows
open, you must close them separately.)
